APPS-1127 update cwl readme section (#319)
dnanexus/dxCompiler: README.md

![](https://github.com/dnanexus/dxCompiler/workflows/WDL%20Integration%20Tests/badge.svg)

dxCompiler takes a pipeline written in the
[Workflow Description Language (WDL)](http://www.openwdl.org/) or [Common Workflow Language](https://www.commonwl.org/v1.2) and compiles it to an equivalent workflow on the DNAnexus platform. 

> The following standards are fully supported:

Reviewer: There are caveats in our support of WDL, and CWL is not mature
```suggestion
The following standards are supported:
```

* WDL: draft-2, 1.0, and 1.1
* CWL: 1.2 

> Support for WDL 2.0 (aka 'development') is under active development and not yet production-ready. CWL 1.0 and 1.1 are not supported but can be upgraded to 1.2 to be compiled (see )

Reviewer 2: There's a missing link at the end.

## Setup

To compile and run your workflow, make sure you have the following ready:
* [DNAnexus platform](https://platform.dnanexus.com) account
* [dx-toolkit](https://documentation.dnanexus.com/downloads)
  * Log in using `dx login`
  * It is recommended to pre-select the project where you want to your compiled workflows to go using `dx select`
* Java 8 or 11
* The latest dxCompiler JAR file from the [releases](https://github.com/dnanexus/dxCompiler/releases) page.
* [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/), if you want to invoke dxCompiler with the [run-dxcompiler-docker](https://github.com/dnanexus/dxCompiler/blob/main/scripts/compiler_image/run-dxcompiler-docker) script using a public `dnanexus/dxcompiler` docker container.
* Python 3.x to run the dxCompiler integration tests

To compile CWL tools/workflows, you might also need:
  * [sbpack](https://github.com/rabix/sbpack) to pack the workflow made up of multiple files into a single compound JSON document before compilation

>   * [cwl-utils](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwl-utils) if you want to convert expression tool into commandline tool in the workflow

Reviewer: Are you referring to https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwl-utils/blob/main/cwl_utils/cwl_expression_refactor.py#L60 ?
The help line says it converts expressions to either `ExpressionTool` or `CommandLineTool`.

Author: I was referring to this line https://github.com/dnanexus/dxCompiler/blob/4f4b7e991c03533cb7506adbf0611160ccd742f8/doc/CWL_v1.2.0_to_WDL_v1.md?plain=1#L285
but I can change it based on the link you shared.

  * [cwl-upgrader](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwl-upgrader) to upgrade your workflow to version 1.2 

>   * [cwltool]() to validate your workflow or test it locally 

Reviewer 2: Link missing in brackets.

![](https://github.com/dnanexus/dxCompiler/workflows/WDL%20Integration%20Tests/badge.svg)

dxCompiler takes a pipeline written in the

> [Workflow Description Language (WDL)](http://www.openwdl.org/) or [Common Workflow Language](https://www.commonwl.org/v1.2) and compiles it to an equivalent workflow on the DNAnexus platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Workflow Description Language (WDL)](http://www.openwdl.org/) or [Common Workflow Language (CWL)](https://www.commonwl.org/v1.2) and compiles it to an equivalent workflow on the DNAnexus platform.
```

The following standards are supported:

* WDL: draft-2, 1.0, and 1.1
* CWL: 1.2

> Support for WDL 2.0 (aka 'development') is under active development and not yet production-ready. CWL 1.0 and 1.1 are not supported but can be upgraded to 1.2 to be compiled (see [Preprocess CWL workflow](#preprocess-cwl-workflow))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Support for WDL 2.0 (aka 'development') is under active development and not yet production-ready. CWL 1.0 and 1.1 are not supported but can be upgraded to 1.2 to be compiled (see [Preprocess CWL workflow](#preprocess-cwl-workflow)).
```

    done
    >>>
    runtime {

>         docker: "quay.io/biocontainers/samtools:1.12--hd5e65b6_0"

Reviewer 2: Thank you for setting specific versions!

$ java -jar dxCompiler.jar compile bam_chrom_counter.wdl -project project-xxxx -folder /my/workflows/
```

This compiles the source WDL file to several platform objects in the specified DNAnexus project `project-xxxx` under folder `/my/workflows/`

* A workflow `bam_chrom_counter`
* Two applets that can be called independently: `slice_bam`, and `count_bam`
* A few auxiliary applets that process workflow inputs, outputs, and launch the scatter.

The generated workflow can be executed from the web UI (see instructions [here](https://documentation.dnanexus.com/getting-started/key-concepts/apps-and-workflows#launching-from-a-project)) or via the DNAnexus command-line client. For example, to run the workflow with the input bam file `project-BQbJpBj0bvygyQxgQ1800Jkk:file-FpQKQk00FgkGV3Vb3jJ8xqGV`, use the following command:

```
dx run bam_chrom_counter -istage-common.bam=project-BQbJpBj0bvygyQxgQ1800Jkk:file-FpQKQk00FgkGV3Vb3jJ8xqGV
```

> Alternatively, you can also convert a [Cromwell JSON format](https://software.broadinstitute.org/wdl/documentation/inputs.php) [input file](contrib/beginner_example/bam_chrom_counter_input.json) into an DNAnexus format when compiling the workflow.  Then you can pass the DNAnexus input file to `dx run` using `-f` option as described in detail [here](doc/ExpertOptions.md###inputs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can also convert a [Cromwell JSON format](https://software.broadinstitute.org/wdl/documentation/inputs.php) [input file](contrib/beginner_example/bam_chrom_counter_input.json) into a DNAnexus format when compiling the workflow.  Then you can pass the DNAnexus input file to `dx run` using `-f` option as described in detail [here](doc/ExpertOptions.md###inputs).
```

> Alternatively, you can also convert a [Cromwell JSON format](https://software.broadinstitute.org/wdl/documentation/inputs.php) [input file](contrib/beginner_example/bam_chrom_counter_input.json) into an equivalent DNAnexus format one when compiling the workflow. Then you can pass the DNAnexus input file to `dx run` using `-f` option as described in detail [here](doc/ExpertOptions.md###inputs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can also convert a [Cromwell JSON format](https://software.broadinstitute.org/wdl/documentation/inputs.php) [input file](contrib/beginner_example/bam_chrom_counter_input.json) into an DNAnexus format when compiling the workflow.  Then you can pass the DNAnexus input file to `dx run` using `-f` option as described in detail [here](doc/ExpertOptions.md###inputs).
```

```
$ java -jar dxCompiler.jar compile bam_chrom_counter.wdl -project project-xxxx -folder /my/workflows/ -inputs bam_chrom_counter_input.json
$ dx run bam_chrom_counter -f bam_chrom_counter_input.dx.json

```

> After launching the workflow analysis, you can monitor it on the CLI following [these instructions](https://documentation.dnanexus.com/user/running-apps-and-workflows/monitoring-executions) or from the UI as suggested [here](https://documentation.dnanexus.com/getting-started#monitoring-jobs-and-viewing-results). The snapshot below shows what you will see from the UI when the workflow execution is completed:

Reviewer 2: So great to have this info added, thanks!

![this](doc/bam_chrom_counter.png)

## CWL

### Preprocess CWL workflow

> dxCompiler requires the source CWL file to be "packed" as a cwl.json file, which contains a single compound workflow with all the dependent processes included. Additionally, you may need to upgrade the version of your workflow to 1.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dxCompiler requires the source CWL file to be "packed" as a cwl.json file, which contains a single compound workflow with all the dependent processes included. Additionally, you may need to upgrade the version of your workflow to CWL v1.2.
```

> We'll use the `bam_chrom_counter` workflow that was used as a WDL example above to illustrate upgrading, packing and running a CWL workflow. This workflow is written in CWL v1.0 and the top-level `Workflow` in `bam_chrom_counter.cwl` will call the `CommandLineTool` described in `slice_bam.cwl` and `count_bam.cwl` in order as two workflow steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll use the `bam_chrom_counter` CWL workflow similar to the WDL example above to illustrate upgrading, packing and running a CWL workflow. This workflow is written in CWL v1.0 and the top-level `Workflow` in `bam_chrom_counter.cwl` calls the two `CommandLineTool`s  in `slice_bam.cwl` and `count_bam.cwl`.
```

[`bam_chrom_counter.cwl`](contrib/beginner_example/cwl_v1.0/bam_chrom_counter.cwl)

> ```bam_chrom_counter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```cwl
```

cwlVersion: v1.0
id: bam_chrom_counter
class: Workflow
requirements:
- class: ScatterFeatureRequirement
inputs:
- id: bam
  type: File

>   # upload this local file to the platform and replace the path below with its full DNAnexus URI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # upload this local file to the platform and replace the path below with the DNAnexus URI "dx://project-xxx:file-yyyy"
```

  default: "path/to/my/input_bam"
outputs:
- id: bai
  type: File
  outputSource: slice_bam/bai
- id: count
  type: int[]
  outputSource: count_bam/count
steps:
- id: slice_bam
  run: slice_bam.cwl
  in:
    bam: bam
  out: [bai, slices]
- id: count_bam
  run: count_bam.cwl
  scatter: bam
  in:
    bam: slice_bam/slices
  out: [count]
```

[`slice_bam.cwl`](contrib/beginner_example/cwl_v1.0/slice_bam.cwl)

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```cwl
```

cwlVersion: v1.0
id: slice_bam
class: CommandLineTool
inputs:
- id: bam
  type: File
- id: num_chrom
  default: 22
  type: int
outputs:
- id: bai
  type: File
  outputBinding:
    glob: $(inputs.bam.basename).bai
- id: slices
  type: File[]
  outputBinding:
    glob: "slices/*.bam"
requirements:
- class: InlineJavascriptRequirement
- class: ShellCommandRequirement
- class: DockerRequirement
  dockerPull: "quay.io/biocontainers/samtools:1.12--hd5e65b6_0"
- class: InitialWorkDirRequirement
  listing:
  - entryname: slice_bam.sh
    entry: |-
      set -ex
      samtools index $1
      mkdir slices/
      for i in `seq $2`; do
          samtools view -b $1 -o slices/$i.bam $i
      done
  - entry: $(inputs.bam)
baseCommand: ["sh", "slice_bam.sh"]
arguments:
  - position: 0
    valueFrom: $(inputs.bam.basename)
  - position: 1
    valueFrom: $(inputs.num_chrom)
hints:
- class: NetworkAccess
  networkAccess: true
- class: LoadListingRequirement
  loadListing: deep_listing
```

[`count_bam.cwl`](contrib/beginner_example/cwl_v1.0/count_bam.cwl)

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```cwl
```

cwlVersion: v1.0
id: count_bam
class: CommandLineTool
requirements:
- class: InlineJavascriptRequirement
- class: ShellCommandRequirement
- class: DockerRequirement
  dockerPull: "quay.io/biocontainers/samtools:1.12--hd5e65b6_0"
inputs:
- id: bam
  type: File
  inputBinding:
    position: 1
baseCommand: ["samtools", "view", "-c"]
outputs:
- id: count
  type: int
  outputBinding:
    glob: stdout
    loadContents: true
    outputEval: "$(parseInt(self[0].contents))"
stdout: stdout
hints:
- class: NetworkAccess
  networkAccess: true
- class: LoadListingRequirement
  loadListing: deep_listing
```

Before compilation, follow the steps below to preprocess these CWL files:

1. De-localize all local paths referenced in the CWL: if the CWL specifies a local path, e.g. a schema or a default value for a `file`-type input (like the default path "path/to/my/input_bam" for input `bam` in [`bam_chrom_counter.cwl`](contrib/beginner_example/cwl_v1.0/bam_chrom_counter.cwl)), you need to upload this file to a DNAnexus project and then replace the local path in the CWL with its full DNAnexus URI, e.g. `dx://project-XXX:file-YYY`.

> 2. Install `cwl-upgrader` and upgrade the CWL files to v1.2 (since they are not already):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install `cwl-upgrader` and upgrade the CWL files to v1.2 (needed in this case as CWL files are in CWL v1.0):
```

   ```
   $ pip3 install cwl-upgrader

>    # upgrade all dependent CWL files, which will be saved in the current directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # upgrade all dependent CWL files, which will be saved in the current working directory
```

   $ cd contrib/beginner_example
   $ cwl-upgrader cwl_v1.0/bam_chrom_counter.cwl cwl_v1.0/slice_bam.cwl cwl_v1.0/count_bam.cwl
   ```

> 3. Install `sbpack` package and run the `cwlpack` command on the top-level workflow file to build the "packed" one as [`bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json`](contrib/beginner_example/bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Install `sbpack` package and run the `cwlpack` command on the top-level workflow file to build a single packed [`bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json`](contrib/beginner_example/bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json) file containing the top level workflow and all the steps it depends on:
```

![this](doc/bam_chrom_counter.png)

### Validate the workflow

dxCompiler uses [wdlTools](https://github.com/dnanexus/wdlTools), a parser that adheres strictly to the WDL specifications. Most of the problematic automatic type conversions that are allowed by some other WDL runtime engines are not allowed by dxCompiler. Please use the command line tools in wdlTools (e.g. `check` and `lint`) to validate your WDL files before trying to compile them with dxCompiler.

## CWL

### Preprocess CWL workflow

dxCompiler requires the source CWL file be "packed" as a `cwl.json` file, which contains a single compound workflow with all the dependent processes included.

> Before compiling your CWL workflow/tool, you might first need to process it into the packed format using the following steps:

Reviewer 2: How about merging these two sentence into one, for example:

dxCompiler requires the source CWL file to be "packed" as a `cwl.json` file, which contains a single compound workflow with all the dependent processes included. Additionally, you may need to upgrade the version of your workflow to 1.2. The following examples demonstrate how to do that:

1. Install ...

    type: int
    inputBinding:
      position: 2
  outputs:
  - id: bai
    type: File
    outputBinding:
      glob: $(inputs.bam).bai
  - id: slices
    type: File[]
    outputBinding:
      glob: "*.bam"
  requirements:
  - class: InlineJavascriptRequirement
  - class: ShellCommandRequirement
  - class: DockerRequirement
    dockerPull: "quay.io/biocontainers/samtools:1.12--hd5e65b6_0"
  - class: InitialWorkDirRequirement
    listing:
    - entryname: slice_bam.sh
      entry: |-
        set -ex
        samtools index $1
        mkdir slices/
        for i in `seq $2`; do
            samtools view -b $1 -o slices/$i.bam $i
        done
  baseCommand: ["sh", "slice_bam.sh"]
- id: count_bam
  class: CommandLineTool
  requirements:
  - class: InlineJavascriptRequirement
  - class: ShellCommandRequirement
  - class: DockerRequirement
    dockerPull: "quay.io/biocontainers/samtools:1.12--hd5e65b6_0"
  inputs:
  - id: bam
    type: File
    inputBinding:
      position: 1
  baseCommand: ["samtools", "view", "-c"]
  outputs:
  - id: count
    type: int
    outputBinding:
      glob: stdout
      loadContents: true
      outputEval: "$(parseInt(self[0].contents))"
  stdout: stdout
```

> Once it is upgraded and packed into `bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json` as suggested above, we can compile it to the DNAnexus platform and run it.

Reviewer 2: How about already pasting here the 1.2 version so that the user can start quicker and skip the upgrade version?

```
$ java -jar dxCompiler.jar compile bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json -project project-xxxx -folder /my/workflows/
$ dx run bam_chrom_counter -istage-common.bam=project-xxxx:file-yyyy
```
### Validate the workflow

> dxCompiler support [CWL v1.2 standard](https://www.commonwl.org/v1.2/index.html) and compiles tools/workflows written using correspounding syntax specifications. You can use `cwltool --validate` to validate the packed CWL file you want to compile.

Reviewer 2: correspounding -> corresponding

![this](doc/bam_chrom_counter.png)

### Validate the workflow

dxCompiler uses [wdlTools](https://github.com/dnanexus/wdlTools), a parser that adheres strictly to the WDL specifications. Most of the problematic automatic type conversions that are allowed by some other WDL runtime engines are not allowed by dxCompiler. Please use the command line tools in wdlTools (e.g. `check` and `lint`) to validate your WDL files before trying to compile them with dxCompiler.

## CWL

> ### Preprocess CWL workflow

Reviewer: I'd like to provide real examples of the 3 steps listed in this section.

Author: Maybe I can put the result cwl files (bam_chrom_counter v1.0, v1.2 and packed json) in contrib/beginner_example and add the file link under each step?

Reviewer: I was thinking of actually changing the example to illustrate all 3 steps.

dxCompiler requires the source CWL file to be "packed" as a cwl.json file, which contains a single compound workflow with all the dependent processes included. Additionally, you may need to upgrade the version of your workflow to 1.2. The following examples demonstrate how to do that:

1. Install `cwl-upgrader` and upgrade your workflow to CWL 1.2 (if it is not already): 
    ```

>     $ pip install cwl-upgrader

Reviewer: pip3

>     $ cwl-upgrader my-workflow.cwl [subworkflow1.cwl subworkflow2.cwl ...]

Reviewer: 1. do all subworkflows mentioned by my-workflow.cwl have to be included on the command line?
2. does cwl-upgrader modify the input files in-place?

Author: 1. Yes. Although after packing only the wf version is kept https://github.com/rabix/sbpack/blob/6abf31ce7085c071c26a8a55462d3257023e9662/sbpack/pack.py#L247-L250
and dxcompiler only check the wf version, to make sure the syntax in subworkflows also works it is better to upgrade all dependent cwl files to ensure subworkflows can also be compiled.
2. if we are in the folder of the cwl files, then it is in-place modification. I added another suggestion if the user want to save the upgraded ones to a new folder

    ```
2. Install `sbpack` package and use the `cwlpack` command on the top-level workflow file to build the "packed" one:
    ```

>     $ pip install https://github.com/rabix/sbpack.git`

Reviewer: pip3

    $ cwlpack --add-ids --json my-workflow.cwl > my-workflow.cwl.json
    ```
3. De-localize all local paths referenced in your CWL: if your CWL specifies a local path, e.g. a schema or a default value for a `file`-type input, you need to upload those files to a DNAnexus project and then replace the local path in your CWL with a DNAnexus URI, e.g. `dx://project-XXX:file-YYY`.

### Compile and run workflow

> The same `bam_chrom_counter` workflow as the example WDL above is now written in CWL v1.0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll use the `bam_chrom_counter` workflow  that was used as a WDL example above to illustrate running a CWL v1.2 workflow:
```

```
#!/usr/bin/env cwl-runner

> cwlVersion: v1.2

Author: @commandlinegirl I switched the sample cwl version to 1.2. Was using v1.0 so we can use it as an example for both upgrading and packing.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, I think it's best to allow the user to quickly and easily copy paste the script and compile it right away. We expect the users to write CWL scripts in 1.2 from the start.

        done
  baseCommand: ["sh", "slice_bam.sh"]
  hints:
    NetworkAccess:
      networkAccess: true
    LoadListingRequirement:
      loadListing: deep_listing
- id: count_bam
  class: CommandLineTool
  requirements:
  - class: InlineJavascriptRequirement
  - class: ShellCommandRequirement
  - class: DockerRequirement
    dockerPull: "quay.io/biocontainers/samtools:1.12--hd5e65b6_0"
  inputs:
  - id: bam
    type: File
    inputBinding:
      position: 1
  baseCommand: ["samtools", "view", "-c"]
  outputs:
  - id: count
    type: int
    outputBinding:
      glob: stdout
      loadContents: true
      outputEval: "$(parseInt(self[0].contents))"
  stdout: stdout
  hints:
    NetworkAccess:
      networkAccess: true
    LoadListingRequirement:
      loadListing: deep_listing
```
Once it is packed into [`bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json`](contrib/beginner_example/bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json) as suggested above, we can compile it to the DNAnexus platform and run it.
```
$ java -jar dxCompiler.jar compile bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json -project project-xxxx -folder /my/workflows/
$ dx run bam_chrom_counter -istage-common.bam=project-xxxx:file-yyyy
```
### Validate the workflow

> dxCompiler support [CWL v1.2 standard](https://www.commonwl.org/v1.2/index.html) and compiles tools/workflows written using the corresponding syntax specifications. You can use `cwltool --validate` to validate the packed CWL file you want to compile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dxCompiler compiles tools/workflows written according to [CWL v1.2 standard](https://www.commonwl.org/v1.2/index.html). You can use `cwltool --validate` to validate the packed CWL file you want to compile.
```

## CWL

### Preprocess CWL workflow

dxCompiler requires the source CWL file to be "packed" as a cwl.json file, which contains a single compound workflow with all the dependent processes included. Additionally, you may need to upgrade the version of your workflow to 1.2. The following examples demonstrate how to do that:

1. Install `cwl-upgrader` and upgrade your workflow to CWL 1.2 (if it is not already): 
    ```
    $ pip3 install cwl-upgrader
    
    # upgrade all your workflow and subworkflow CWL files in-place 
    $ cd path/to/all-my-workflow
    $ cwl-upgrader my-workflow.cwl [subworkflow1.cwl subworkflow2.cwl ...]

    # alternatively, upgrade all CWL files and save them all to a new folder
    $ cd path/to/upgraded-workflow
    $ cwl-upgrader path/to/my-workflow.cwl [path/to/subworkflow1.cwl path/to/subworkflow2.cwl ...]
    ```
2. Install `sbpack` package and use the `cwlpack` command on the top-level workflow file to build the "packed" one:
    ```

>     $ pip3 install https://github.com/rabix/sbpack.git`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    $ pip3 install sbpack
```

When I tried to install from GitHub I was getting [this error](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67361309/pip3-cannot-determine-archive-format). Anyway, we should recommend installing the latest stable version that's why my suggestion above.

  - class: InitialWorkDirRequirement
    listing:
    - entryname: slice_bam.sh
      entry: |-
        set -ex
        samtools index $1
        mkdir slices/
        for i in `seq $2`; do
            samtools view -b $1 -o slices/$i.bam chr$i
        done
    - entry: $(inputs.bam)
  baseCommand: ["sh", "slice_bam.sh"]
  arguments:
    - position: 0
      valueFrom: $(inputs.bam.basename)
    - position: 1
      valueFrom: $(inputs.num_chrom)
  hints:
    NetworkAccess:
      networkAccess: true
    LoadListingRequirement:
      loadListing: deep_listing
- id: count_bam
  class: CommandLineTool
  requirements:
  - class: InlineJavascriptRequirement
  - class: ShellCommandRequirement
  - class: DockerRequirement
    dockerPull: "quay.io/biocontainers/samtools:1.12--hd5e65b6_0"
  inputs:
  - id: bam
    type: File
    inputBinding:
      position: 1
  baseCommand: ["samtools", "view", "-c"]
  outputs:
  - id: count
    type: int
    outputBinding:
      glob: stdout
      loadContents: true
      outputEval: "$(parseInt(self[0].contents))"
  stdout: stdout
  hints:
    NetworkAccess:
      networkAccess: true
    LoadListingRequirement:
      loadListing: deep_listing
```

> Once it is packed into [`bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json`](contrib/beginner_example/bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json) as suggested above, we can compile it to the DNAnexus platform and run it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once it is packed into [`bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json`](contrib/beginner_example/bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json) as suggested above, we can compile it as a DNAnexus workflow and run it.
```

```

> $ java -jar dxCompiler.jar compile bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json -project project-xxxx -folder /my/workflows/

Reviewer: Please show providing an input file (should be the same as WDL input file), and mention that compilation converts cromwell-style input to equivalent DNAnexus input to be used with `dx run`.

> $ dx run bam_chrom_counter -istage-common.bam=project-xxxx:file-yyyy

Reviewer: Let's change the input to the real input file from Demo Data project.

Also after the code block, add
" you can also use dxCompiler to convert cromwell-style input file [link to the actuall input file] to an input file which can be passed to `dx run` using `-f` option as described in detail   [here](link to expertDocs).

```
### Validate the workflow

> dxCompiler compiles tools/workflows written according to [CWL v1.2 standard](https://www.commonwl.org/v1.2/index.html). You can use `cwltool --validate` to validate the packed CWL file you want to compile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dxCompiler compiles tools/workflows written according to the [CWL v1.2 standard](https://www.commonwl.org/v1.2/index.html). You can use `cwltool --validate` to validate the packed CWL file you want to compile.
```

      loadContents: true
      outputEval: "$(parseInt(self[0].contents))"
  stdout: stdout
  hints:
    NetworkAccess:
      networkAccess: true
    LoadListingRequirement:
      loadListing: deep_listing
```

> Once it is upgraded and packed into [`bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json`](contrib/beginner_example/bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json) as suggested above, we can compile it to the DNAnexus platform and run it.

Reviewer 2: Once it is upgraded and packed -> Once it is packed

```
$ java -jar dxCompiler.jar compile bam_chrom_counter.cwl.json -project project-xxxx -folder /my/workflows/
$ dx run bam_chrom_counter -istage-common.bam=project-xxxx:file-yyyy
```
### Validate the workflow

> dxCompiler support [CWL v1.2 standard](https://www.commonwl.org/v1.2/index.html) and compiles tools/workflows written using corresponding syntax specifications. You can use `cwltool --validate` to validate the packed CWL file you want to compile.

Reviewer 2: corresponding syntax specifications -> the corresponding syntax specification
